>> Estelle Weyl: So we've had the,
let's go back to here.
We tried the first child, the last child,
the first-of-type, the last-of-type,
only-child, and only-of-type.
But you can be more specific,
you can say the third,
you can say every third,
so 1, 4, 7, 10, or 2, 5, 8, 11.
You can say there's two key terms,
there's odd and even.
But otherwise,
it's an equation that is an+b.
The b being the offset, and
the offset can be negative,
and the an,
the n is actually the letter n.
The a is the variable, and it's basically
how many times do you, it is an interval.
It's an interval of 3 if we put 3n, but
it's somewhat like the incrementer,
whatever.
So the letter n is the thing that is, it's
not required, because if you leave out,
here, we left it out, and so
it's just the fifth element.
Right, but if you're going to iterate,
then it is the letter n,
and there can't be a space.
This is wrong, this will not work, that
works, okay, so the equation is, an+b.
Which b is the first value where you start
counting, so it could be negative 7.
And if the incrementer was 3, so it was
3n- 7, well there's no negative 4 and
there's no negative 1, so
it'd really start with 2.
But, if you had b being 12,
so it was 3n + 12,
the first item to be targeted
would be number 12, and
then it would be number 15,
number 18, number 21, so.
>> Estelle Weyl: Left off the CSS for
this one, okay, so let's,
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so
before we add Flexbox,
let me see if I can,
>> Estelle Weyl: Make the Flexbox,
>> Estelle Weyl: Then we'll go like that.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay, so I'm just gonna
go to these two slides until we can catch
up, cuz there's a typo in the slides.
Okay, so
here we have structural selectors,
and the first-child and
the last-child are both bold.
So what number, we have 10,
what number is the first and the last?
1 and 10, so 1 and 10 are both bold.
Then we have the first-of-type and
the last-of-type.
Because we only have
the only thing that can be
a descendant of an ordered or
unordered list is an li.
So it matches the first-child and
the last-child.
But it could have been,
if we had done paragraphs in h1,
it would have been different.
Then we have nth-child(even),
background-color gray.
And so you'll notice that 2, 4, 6, 8 and
10 have a background color of gray.
And then it says nth-child(3),
so just the third one,
make it gray
>> Estelle Weyl: As in the color, and so
you'll see all of them are black or
blue, except for number 3 is gray.
And then, it says nth-of-type(odd),
made it white.
Which just made it stripe,
I could have made it a different color.
And then nth-of-type(4n),
so that means every fourth.
So it's number 4, number 8,
if we had continued, it'd been number 12,
number 16, number 20,
number 24, so that's 4n.
And then the last equation says 3n-1, so
we start with n being 0.
And 3n- 1 is negative 1,
so that doesn't count.
Then we say, if n was 1,
it would be 3 times 1 is 3, minus 1 is 2.
And then if n was 2, it would be 2
times 3, which is 6, minus 1 is 5.
Who said you didn't need to know math,
right?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Estelle Weyl: So we have number 2,
number 5, number 8, and it would
have also continued onto number 11,
and would have continued ad infinitum,
of making those aligned right.
Do people understand
the equation of an + b, okay.
>> Estelle Weyl: So before we had Flexbox,
you could do stupid pet tricks like this.
Which is, you could say,
the element that is the only of its type,
give it a width of 100%.
If you have two elements, so
the first element would be
the first of its type,
>> Estelle Weyl: And
nth-last-of-type, starting from the end.
So here I'm showing you last-of-type,
we have not started from the end before.
So nth-last-of-type, so start at the end,
and then do the equation.
So an element that is both
the first of its type and
the second from the end means
there's exactly two elements.
This next line says nth-of-type(2),
which means it's the second element,
right, and
it is also the last of its type, right.
>> Estelle Weyl: That means there's
exactly two, but it's the second one, so
bake those both 50%.
And then going onto the fourth one, it
says nth-of-type(1):nth-last-of-type(4).
>> Estelle Weyl: So it's basically
something that is the first one and
fourth from the end, which means
it's exactly 4, right, make it 25%.
So this is what we could
do before we had Flexbox.
But later on today,
we're gonna cover Flexbox, so
we don't need to use
these stupid pet tricks.
But I just did wanna show you that
you can put two things together,
you can string selectors along like that.
Okay, so
I believe we are back to here, yes.
So here, feel free to take two minutes or
three minutes,
let's do three minutes, to play with this.